		    User Contributed Software

The subtree /usr/src/new contains programs contributed by the user
community.  The following software is included:

Directory	Description				Contributor(s)
---------	-----------				-----------
apl		APL system				Purdue
bib		bibliography system			Arizona
courier		remote procedure call package		Eric Cooper, Berkeley
cpm		CP/M floppy access package		Helge Skrivervik
dsh		distributed shell			Dave Presotto, Berkeley
hyper		Hyperchannel support tools		Steve Glaser, Tektronix
icon		ICON system				Arizona
learn		learn lessons for vi			Pavel Curtis, Cornell
mh		MH mail system				Rand Corporation
news		``readnews'' bulletin board system	Matt Glickman, Berkeley
notes		notes files bulletin board system	Illinois
rcs		revision control system			Walter Tichy, Purdue
sccstorcs	sccs to rcs conversion kit		Ken Greer, HP
spms		software project management system	Peter Nicklin, Berkeley
tools		miscellaneous tools			John Kunze, Berkeley

The individuals responsible for the software should be identified in
the accompanying 4.2BSD documents which describe the user contributed
software.  All software included here has been written by outside
parties; we gratefully acknowledge their contributions.

This subtree may be extracted from the 4.2BSD second tape by the command
	
	mt fsf; cd /usr/src/new; tar x

The organization of this subtree is such that a single make command
will compile and/or install the contributed software.  To compile 
everything, simply type

	make

Once this is done, to install the software in the /usr/new area of
the file system type

	make install

All subdirectories have README files and individual makefiles.  If
you want only some of the software contained here go to the appropriate
directories and use the previous commands to compile and install the
desired system.  As distributed, all software located here is set up
to be installed in ${DESTDIR}/usr/new, where DESTDIR is a make macro
which can be supplied on the command line.  Consult each directory's
README file for the information needed to change this.

The software included here is in use at Berkeley, or other sites
running 4.2BSD (or an earlier derivative). Please remember that this is
contributed software and, as such, we do not ``support'' it in the same
manner as that software which is part of the standard distribution.
Each subsystem has a README file in it's root directory. This file
should be consulted to find an interested party to which bugs and/or
bug fixes should be sent. In certain cases these people are located at
Berkeley; this does not imply they are part of the Computer Systems
Research Group, please contact them as individuals.

	Ralph Campbell
	Sam Leffler
	David Mosher
	Peter Nicklin
