Title:			SPMS - Software Project Management System

Author:			Peter J. Nicklin

Address:		Hewlett-Packard,
			Software Engineering Laboratory,
			3500 Deercreek Road, Building 26U,
			Palo Alto, California 94304

Net address:		ucbvax!hplabs!hpcea!hpcesea!nicklin (UUCP)

Description:

The  Software  Project  Management  System  (SPMS)  is a system  for the
management  of  software   systems.  SPMS  provides,   within  the  UNIX
environment (UNIX is a trademark of Bell Telephone  Laboratories, Inc.),
a number of commands  which can greatly  simplify many tasks  associated
with  program  development  and  maintenance.  SPMS does not  attempt to
duplicate existing UNIX program  development tools such as make or SCCS,
but instead  provides a way of  coordinating  these  tools.  SPMS can be
fitted to existing  software systems.  It retains the full  capabilities
of the UNIX  environment with  unrestricted  access to UNIX tools.  As a
result,  software  packages  developed  using  SPMS do not depend on the
system for their  survival and can be ported to versions of UNIX that do
not support SPMS.

Installation:

1.	Set up directories  /usr/new,  /usr/new/lib,  and /usr/man/mann.
	These  must  be writable by the installing process.  If you want
	to put SPMS somewhere else,  you will have to change  the  DEST=
	macro in all the makefiles, and edit the "spms.h" file in
	spms/include.

2.	Change  to  the  spms  directory  and  execute   "make install".
	If something  goes  wrong, don't panic. Just fix the problem and
	restart "make install".

Bugfixes/Changes:

The following bugfixes and changes have been made since 4.2BSD.

1.	The mkmf makefile editor is now independent of SPMS. It has also
	been extensively revised. See the mkmf README for more details.

2.	Pgrep: The exit status is now zero if any matches are found, and
	1 if there were no matches. Previously, pgrep always returned 1.

3.	Plog: The buffer that stores the  "From:"  mail header line  has
	been declared static.

4.	The  project  pathnames  in two tables on pages 15 and 26 of the
	SPMS user's guide have been corrected.
