#	@(#)README	8.22 (Berkeley) 4/14/94

This is the area for building nvi/nex.  There are a number of porting
directories, for various architecture/OS combinations.  Pick the one
that's closest to yours and try "make".  For the rest of this file,
I'll use "MACH" as a fake architecture/OS name.

To PORT to a new system, create the following subdirectories and
symbolic links.

	mkdir MACH		(for example: mkdir sunos.4.0)
	cd MACH
	cp ../Makefile .
	chmod 664 Makefile
	ln -s ../clib .
	ln -s ../curses .
	ln -s ../db .
	ln -s ../regex .
	mkdir include
	ln -s include sys
	cd include
	ln -s ../../include/*.h .
	rm compat.h
	cp ../../include/compat.h .
	chmod 664 compat.h
	cd ..

The basic idea is that you now have a local area that you can modify.
In particular, you have local copies of the Makefile and the include
file compat.h.  Read through the Makefile and compat.h and make whatever
changes are appropriate to your system.  If there's an architecture
that's close to yours, you probably should diff the Makefile and
compat.h in that tree against the standard ones and see what changes
were necessary, as they're probably necessary for you as well.  Then,
enter "make" and see what happens!

There are several subroutines that are found in POSIX 1003.2, ANSI
C, or 4.4BSD that you may not have.  Once you get nvi to compile, go
through the list of undefined routines and add entries to the MISC
line in the Makefile as necessary.

If you have to add some functions that are missing (and which aren't
in the PORT/clib directory), please don't add them in the PORT/clib
directory.  Add them in a MACH/local directory, and add lines of the
form:

	function.o: local/function.o
		${CL} -Ilocal local/function.o

to your local Makefile.

Hopefully, over time, we'll develop a set of system directories that
are known to work.  If you send me the changes that were necessary to
make your system work, this will happen much more quickly.

In some of the system directories, you'll see a file named OTHER_PATCHES.
This is a set of patches which you'll have to make from the top-level nvi
directory to get nvi to run on this system:

	cd ..
	patch < PORT/MACH/OTHER_PATCHES

If patch prompts you for the name of the file to modify (some versions
of patch don't figure it out on their own) use the file name which patch
displays.

Some other knobs you may have to turn:

In the Makefile:
	If you have an old (4.3BSD) version of curses, uncomment the
	inclusion of the curses library in the Makefile.

In include/compat.h:
	Before attempting to build nvi, you should look through the
	compat.h file, and adjust it as necessary for your system.
	It's possible to use the #ifndef construct to figure out if a
	#ifdef has been set, but C provides no similar method to figure
	out if a typedef has been done.  Your compile errors should
	give you a good indication of which ones you need.

You may see warning messages about illegal pointer combinations.  Nvi
currently uses u_char's to represent characters, and there are some
places where it uses C library routines that expect char *'s.  This
inconsistency will be resolved with nvi is made 8-bit clean.  You may
also see lots of warning messages about #define's being redefined.
These can mostly be ignored.  In general, I ignore all warning messages
until something doesn't work.  Some systems produce thousands of lines
of completely useless warnings.

The other parts of the PORT directory are as follows:

	The directory PORT/db is a copy of the dbopen(3) routines (see
	PORT/db/VERSION for a version number).  This is a complete
	database access methods package that is used by nex/nvi as the
	interface to the underlying file.

	The directory PORT/curses is a copy of the 4.4BSD version of the
	curses(3) routines.  This is an updated implementation of the
	traditional BSD curses package.  Use it if you don't have your
	own version of the curses library, or, if your version is too old
	to have scrolling support.  (Older versions of BSD curses didn't,
	and some System V versions don't do it right, and this makes nvi
	intolerably slow, since it will repaint the entire screen on almost
	every update.)

	The directory PORT/regex is a copy of the 4.4BSD version of the
	regular expression routines.  This is an implementation of the
	POSIX 1003.2 standard regular expression interfaces, done by
	Henry Spencer.  (The files and functions have similar names to
	historic RE packages, but they often aren't the same, so be
	careful.)

	The directory PORT/clib is a set of functions that the 4.4BSD
	C library had and which your system may not have.  They are
	added to the MISC line of the Makefile if they aren't defined
	when you try and load nvi.
	
	The directory PORT/include is header files that the 4.4BSD
	system had which your system may not have.  There is also
	one really important extra one, named compat.h, which is a
	set of compatibility work-arounds that you'll almost certainly
	have to copy and modify for a new system.

	The symbolic link MACH/sys points to the MACH/include directory
	so that includes of the form <sys/include.h> work.

Some of the more common portability problems:

	Nvi needs the ability to replace the underlying read/write
	routines in a stdio stream with its own -- see clib/fwopen.c
	for a detailed explanation.  If you don't have fwopen(3) or
	similar functionality, add fwopen.o to the MISC line in the
	Makefile, and add "-DFWOPEN_NOT_AVAILABLE" to the CL= line
	in the Makefile.

	If you have a System V curses, make sure you add -DSYSV_CURSES
	to the CL= line in the Makefile.

	If your curses library doesn't have the addnstr(3) interface,
	add Xaddnstr.o (NOT addnstr.o!) to the MISC line in the
	Makefile.  If your version of curses doesn't have idlok(3),
	add addidlok.o to the MISC line in the Makefile.

	If you don't have flock(2), but you do have fcntl(2), add
	flock.o to the MISC line in the Makefile.  If you don't
	have fcntl(2) either, add lockf.o to the MISC line in the
	Makefile.

	If you don't have:

		bsearch(3):	add bsearch.o
		err(3):		add err.o
		fchmod(3):	add fchmod.o
		memchr(3):	add memchr.o
		memmove(3):	add memmove.o
		memset(3):	add memset.o
		mkstemp(3):	add mktemp.o
		siglist(3):	add siglist.o
		strdup(3):	add strdup.o
		strerror(3):	add strerror.o
		strsep(3):	add strsep.o
		strtoul(3):	add strtoul.o
		warn(3):	add err.o

			... to the MISC line in the Makefile.

	If realloc(3) of a NULL pointer on your system isn't the same
	as a malloc(3) call, add realloc.o to the MISC line in the
	Makefile.

	If you don't have snprintf/vsnprintf(3), add snprintf.o to the
	MISC line in the Makefile.  This workaround depends on your
	system having vsprintf(3) -- if you don't, there's no workaround
	other than changing the source code to not use the snprintf calls.
	If you have to make that change, check to see if your vsprintf
	returns a length or a char *; if it's the latter, make sure you
	set VSPRINTF_CHARSTAR in the MACH/include/compat.h file.

	If you don't have 4.4BSD's pty interface, but you have 4BSD
	style pty's, add pty.o to the MISC line.  If you have System
	V Release 4 style pty's, add pty_s5r4.o to your MISC line.

Pathnames that may have changed:

	All of the pathnames used by nvi are found in the include file
	pathnames.h, in the top nvi directory.  If any of them aren't
	correct for your system, copy the pathnames.h include from the
	nvi directory into your local include directory, and change the
	#define's as necessary.

	The 4.4BSD C library tags were found in "/var/db/libc.tags", and
	the kernel tags were found in "/sys/kern/tags".  If these paths
	are wrong for your system, change the _PATH_TAGS #define in your
	local copy of pathnames.h

Sendmail:
	Nvi uses sendmail to send mail to users when edit sessions need
	to be recovered.  If you don't have a sendmail program on your
	system, see the RECOVERY section of the vi reference page.
