$Revision: 1.6 $
This file contains a few messages of historical interest.  Some of the
information in these messages is out of date (e.g., you don't need any
other software, ihave/sendme is suported, etc); see the README and
installation manual.

The first is a mail message I sent as soon as I got the idea.

Six months later I had something to beta, and I posted the second message
to Usenet.  My ship date was optimistic.

The third message is the application that I required all beta sites to
fill out.

The fourth is a copy of the release notice.

From: Rich Salz <rsalz@bbn.com>
Date: Sat, 8 Dec 90 15:23:20 EST
Message-Id: <9012082023.AA13441@litchi.bbn.com>
To: newsgurus@ucsd.edu, nntp-managers@ucbarpa.Berkeley.EDU
Subject: Speed idea.

Suppose inews, nntp, "rnews -U", newsunbatch, etc., all just fed their
articles to a single daemon?

An idea I started kicking around yesterday.  This is intended only for
sites supporting BSD networking.  I believe that anyone else who needs
this kind of speed would find Cnews good enough.

A multi-threaded server that used non-blocking IO to read all incoming
articles on several sockets (don't forker a server, select on the
connection socket will return READOK when a connection request comes in).
All articles are read into memory, then written out to the filesystem
using a single writev call (easy way to splice the path).

Hash the active file and compile the sys file so as soon as an article was
accepted we can write out the batchfile entries.  As one special case,
write entries to another socket for articles that should be fed out via
NNTPLINK or something.

Put the socket inside a group-access-only directory, so that only trusted
front-ends like inews "rnews -U" etc can connect to it.

Oh yeah, for things like nntp use sendmsg/recvmesg to hand off the
feeding site to the demon once it's authenticated the incoming call and
recognized it as an "xfer no" site.

I've a few pages of notes and code fragments to type in.

No locks of any kind.  active file is mmap'd or periodically flushed.
Keep it all in core and blat it out with a single write.

When you want to expire, or add a group, you send a special message
on a control port, or perhaps a sighup/sigusr1 to force it to resynch.

Any feedback?
	/r$

Path: papaya.bbn.com!rsalz
From: rsalz@bbn.com (Rich Salz)
Newsgroups: news.software.nntp,news.admin,comp.org.usenix
Subject: Seeking beta-testers for a new NNTP transfer system
Message-ID: <3632@litchi.bbn.com>
Date: 18 Jun 91 15:47:21 GMT
Followup-To: poster
Organization: Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc.
Lines: 72
Xref: papaya.bbn.com news.software.nntp:1550 news.admin:15565 comp.org.usenix:418

InterNetNews, or INN, is a news transport system.  The core part of the
package is a single long-running daemon that handles all incoming NNTP
connections.  It files the articles and arranges for them to be forwarded
to downstream sites.  Because it is long-running, it can be directed to
spawn other long-running processes, telling them exactly when an article
should be sent to a feed.  This can replace the "watch the logfile" mode
of nntplink, for example, with a much cleaner mechanism:  read the
batchfile on standard input.

InterNetNews assumes that memory is cheap and fast while disks are slow.
No temporary files are used while incoming articles are being received,
and once processed the entire article is written out using a single
writev(2) call (this includes updating the Path and Xref headers).  The
active file is kept in memory (a compile-time option can be set to use
mmap(2)), and the newsfeeds file is parsed once to build a complete matrix
of which sites receive which newsgroups.

InterNetNews uses many features of standard BSD sockets including
non-blocking I/O and Unix-domain stream and datagram sockets.  It is
highly doubtful that the official version will ever provide support for
TLI, DECNET, or other facilities.

INN is fast.  Not many hard numbers are available (that is one requirement
of being a beta-site), but some preliminary tests show it to be at least
twice as fast as the current standard NNTP/C News combination.  For
example, Jim Thompson at Sun has had 20 nntpxmits feeding into a 4/490,
and was getting over 14 articles per second, with the CPU 11% utilized.  I
was getting 10 articles/second feeding into a DECstations 3100, with the
program (running profiled!) 50% idle and the load average under .7.  (It
is a scary thing to see several articles filed with the same timestamp.)

The sys file format is somewhat different, and has been renamed.  The
arcane "foo.all" syntax is gone, replaced with a set of order-dependant
shell patterns.  For example, instead of "comp,comp.sys.sun,!comp.sys" you
would write "comp.*,!comp.sys.*,comp.sys.sun"; to not get any groups
related to binaries or pictures, you write "!*pictures*,!*binaries*".

There are other incompatibilities as well.  For example, ihave/sendme
control messages are not supported.  Also the philosophy is that that
invalid articles are dropped, rather than filed into "junk."  (A log
message is written with the reason, and also sent back to the upstream
feed as part of the NNTP reject reply.)  The active file is taken to be
the definitive list of groups that an article wants to recieve, and if
none of an article's newsgroups are mentioned in the active file, then the
article is invalid, logged, and dropped.

The history and log files are intended to be compatible with those created
by C News.  I want to thank Henry and Geoff for their kind permission to
use DBZ and SUBST.  You will need to be running C News expire or a B2.11
expire that has been modified to use DBZ.

The InterNetNews daemon does not implement all NNTP commands.  If sites
within your campus are going to post or read news via NNTP, you will need
the standard NNTP distribution.  The daemon will spawn the standard nntpd
if any site not mentioned in its "hosts.nntp" file connects to the TCP
port.  InterNetNews includes a replacement for the "mini-inews" that comes
with the standard NNTP distribution.  This can be used on any machine that
posts news and connects to an NNTP server somewhere; its use is not
limited to INN.  At some point I hope to have a replacement nntpd
optimized for newsreaders, and an NNTP transmission program.  These will
remove the need for any external software beyond the C News expire program.

If you would like to beta-test this version, please FTP the file
pub/usenet/INN.BETA from cronus.bbn.com for directions.  It will be a
fairly tightly-screened beta:  DO NOT ASK ME FOR COPIES!  Once the system
is stable, it will be freely redistributable.  I hope to have the official
release by August 7, so that schools can bring the system up before the
semester starts.
	/rich $alz
-- 
Please send comp.sources.unix-related mail to rsalz@uunet.uu.net.
Use a domain-based address or give alternate paths, or you may lose out.

Thanks for your interest in InterNetNews.  I want to run a fairly
tightly-controlled beta test of the software before I make it generally
available.  This means that I'm going to screen the sites which will be
able to participate in the test.  Please don't be offended or upset by
this whole procedure.  I want to make the final package as stable as soon
as possible so that the entire net can benefit (it will be freely
redistributable).  I've set up this mechanism because I think it's the
best way for me to get the best test results as quickly as possible.

I would therefore appreciate your answers to the following questions.
If you think the answers to some of them will be obvious to me (e.g.,
"Describe your organization" --> "UUNET" :-) then feel free to leave it
blank.  If you have any other feedback or comments, please add them.

Email your results to <rsalz@bbn.com>
	/r$

What software (transport, batching, readers, etc.) do you currently run?

How much experience do you have with Usenet and NNTP?

Describe your organization.

How do you plan on testing InterNetNews?  Be specific, describing the
machine hardware, any test servers, etc.  [The answers to this one
won't be obvious to me -- you gotta write something.]

What are the rough counts of the upstream and downstream feeds, and how do
they break down by category (UUCP, NNTP, etc.)?

What special news functions does your server perform (gatewaying,
archiving, etc.)?

Do you understand that by participating in the beta-test you agree not to
redistribute the software outside of your administrative domain, and that
you promise to upgrade to the official release in a timely manner?

From: Rich Salz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net>
Message-Id: <inn-announce@uunet.uu.net>
Newsgroups: news.software.b,news.protocols.nntp
Subject: Announcing the release of InterNetNews

I am pleased to announce the official release of InterNetNews.

InterNetNews, or INN, is a news transport system.  The core part of the
package is a single long-running daemon that handles all incoming NNTP
connections.  It files the articles and arranges for them to be forwarded
to downstream sites.  Because it is long-running, it can be directed to
spawn other long-running processes, telling them exactly when an article
should be sent to a feed.

INN is a complete Usenet system.  It provides article expiration and
archiving, NNTP transport, and UUCP support.  Nntplink works fine.

INN does not include a newsreader.  It does provide a version of the NNTP
reference implementation "clientlib" routines so that rrn and other
newsreaders compile with little trouble.  The next release of xrn will
include INN support.

The spool directory is unchanged while the history database is
upwardly-compatible with that of C News and the log file is very similar.
All system configuration files are different.

INN assumes that memory is cheap and fast while disks are slow.  No
temporary files are used while incoming articles are being received, and
once processed the entire article is written out using a single system
call (this includes updating the Path and Xref headers).  The active file
is kept in memory, and the newsfeeds file is parsed at start-up to build a
complete matrix of which sites receive which newsgroups.  A paper
describing the implementation was presented at the June 1992 Usenix
conference.

INN uses many features of standard BSD sockets including non-blocking
I/O.  It is highly doubtful that the official version will ever provide
support for TLI, DECNET, or other facilities.  Among others, INN beta
sites include ATT Unix System V Release 4, Apple A/UX, BSDI BSD/386 0.3.3,
DEC Ultrix 3.x and 4.x, HP-UX s800 8.0, IBM AIX 3.1 and 3.2, Next NeXT-OS
2.1, Pyramid OSx 5.1, SCO Xenix 2.3.4, SGI Irix 4.0, Sequent Dynix 3.0.4
and 3.0.12, and Sun SunOS 3.5 and 4.x.

Almost all of the beta-testers have reported faster performance and less
load once they installed INN.  Many people find it easy to maintain.

A number of sites have graciously agreed to provide FTP access to this
release.  The machine names and directories are listed below.  Within
those directories you will find one or more of the following files:
	README			Intro and unpacking instructions;
	 -or-			a copy appears at the end of this
	README.INN		article.
	inn1.0.tar.Z		The full distribution
	inn.usenix.ps.Z		The Usenix paper on INN

The sites providing access are:
	cs.utexas.edu		/pub/inn
	ftp.cs.widener.edu	/pub/inn.tar.Z (or wherever).
	ftp.germany.eu.net	/pub/news/inn
	ftp.ira.uka.de		pub/network/news
	ftp.msen.com		/pub/packages/inn
	ftp.uu.net		/pub/news/nntp/inn
	gatekeeper.dec.com	/pub/news/inn
	grasp1.univ-lyon1.fr	/pub/unix/news/inn
	munnari.oz.au		/pub/news/inn
	sparky.Sterling.COM	/news/inn
	src.doc.ic.ac.uk	/computing/usenet/software/transport
	stasys.sta.sub.org	/pub/src/inn
	    (Stasys also has anonymous UUCP; contact <fkk@sta.sub.org>.
	ucsd.edu		/INN
	usc.edu			/pub/inn

Discussion about INN should be posted to news.software.b and
news.software.nntp.  Email should be sent to <rsalz@uunet.uu.net>.  Please
do NOT send it to <rsalz@osf.org> -- it will only just delay your response
since I will have to forward it to UUNET.

The README follows after the formfeed.
	/r$
