			Warp Kit, Version 7.0

		    Copyright (c) 1986, Larry Wall

You may copy the warp kit in whole or in part as long as you don't try to
make money off it, or pretend that you wrote it.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Warp is a real-time space war game that doesn't get boring very quickly.
Read warp.doc and the manual page for more information.

Warp will probably not run on V7 systems that don't have a non-blocking read,
or on machines with a small address space like the PDP-11.  Caveat Emptor.

Please read all the directions below before you proceed any further, and
then follow them carefully.  Failure to do so may void your warranty. :-)

After you have unpacked your kit, you should have all the files listed
in MANIFEST.

			    IMPORTANT

You must choose the uid that you want warp to run under, since warp runs
setuid to protect its files.  Choose a uid (not root) that is used only
by trustworthy persons.  If you do your make install as root, the installed
version will be chowned to this uid.  Otherwise, you should login to your
selected uid before proceeding.  The Configure script will ask you which
uid you want warp to run under.

Installation

1)  Run Configure.  This will figure out various things about your system.
    Some things Configure will figure out for itself, other things it will
    ask you about.  It will then proceed to make config.h, config.sh, and
    Makefile.

    You might possibly have to trim # comments from the front of Configure
    if your sh doesn't handle them, but all other # comments will be taken
    care of.

    (If you don't have sh, you'll have to copy the sample file config.H to
    config.h and edit the config.h to reflect your system's peculiarities.)

2)  Glance through config.h to make sure system dependencies are correct.
    Most of them should have been taken care of by running the Configure script.

    If you have any additional changes to make to the C definitions, they
    can be done in the Makefile, or in config.h.  Bear in mind that they will
    get undone next time you run Configure.

3)  make depend

    This will look for all the includes and modify Makefile accordingly.
    Configure will offer to do this for you.

4)  make

    This will attempt to make warp in the current directory.

5)  make install

    This will put warp into a public directory (normally /usr/games).
    It will also try to put the man pages in a reasonable place.  It will not
    nroff the man page, however.  You may need to be root to do this.  If
    you are not root, you must own the directories in question and you should
    ignore any messages about chown not working.

6)  Read the manual entry before running warp.

7)  Feel free to edit warp.news.

8)  IMPORTANT!  Help save the world!  Communicate any problems and
    suggested patches to me, lwall@sdcrdcf.UUCP (Larry Wall), so we can
    keep the world in sync.  If you have a problem, there's someone else
    out there who either has had or will have the same problem.

    If possible, send in patches such that the patch program will apply them.
    Context diffs are the best, then normal diffs.  Don't send ed scripts--
    I've probably changed my copy since the version you have.

    Watch for warp patches in comp.sources.bugs.  Patches will generally be
    in a form usable by the patch program.  If you are just now bringing up
    warp and aren't sure how many patches there are, write to me and I'll
    send any you don't have.  Your current patch level is shown in patchlevel.h.


NEW FEATURES IN THIS RELEASE

Uses a Configure script for greater portability.
Space Amoebas!!!
Pirates
Friendly Freighters
Harry Mudd
Damage
Keyboard mapping
