Welcome to the new (beta) tn3270.

The good news is that MOST system dependent code is in a few subdirectories
(mostly in sys_curses, on Unix, or sys_dos, on MS_DOS).

Internally, the code has changed substantially.  We now look (to the
best of our limited ability) like a 3274 controller.  The screen buffer
is kept in 3270 display code format; keystokes are defined in terms
of 3270 scan codes (but, no changes to /etc/map3270 are required).

Unfortunately, things are much more complicated that ever.  There are now
subdirectories.  To wit:

    api/		General library of function needed by API
			(and, to some extent, by the rest of tn3270).

    arpa/		Location of "telnet.h" (for non-4.3 systems).

    ascii/		Routines necessary to handle the case of running
			from an ASCII-oriented system (ie: unix).

    ctlr/		The main part of the emulator.  Handles 3270 scan
			codes, 3270 data stream, 3270 display codes,
			and EBCDIC.  Also, the internal API function
			lives here.

    general/		Some general subroutines and data structures of
			interest to the emulator only.

    sys_curses/		System-dependent code for a curses-based environment.

    sys_dos/		System-dependent code for an MS-DOS-base environment.

    tools/		Various tools.  Most of these are used during the
			build process.  One (prt3270) is a debugging tool.
			One (mkmake.y) is quite horrible, and attempts to
			transform Unix makefiles into PC makefiles.

    utilities/		The source for tnrecv, which receives files
			(fairly slowly) from an IBM host.  We don't
			include the IBM side, because we really aren't
			happy with very much of it (except that it does,
			sometimes, work).  Hopefully, when we get past
			the beta stage we will have more robust (and
			complete) code to share.

The fact that system dependancies are isolated should make it easy
to port to other systems.  I would like to hear about problems porting
to new areas.

WHAT IS NOT IN THIS VERSION (sigh):

1)	We don't have a native X version yet.  I am waiting for X version 11
	(though this is mostly an excuse; I could have done version 10,
	but I haven't had the time).

2)	We don't process structured fields.

3)	We don't do 3270-style graphics (ala 3193, say).

The above three items WILL be in the next version, which should come
along "any day now" (say 6 months) (but, they WON'T be in the production
release of this version).

MS-DOS NOTES:

This version can be built on an MS-DOS system.

We use version 4.0 of the MicroSoft C compiler.  We use version 4.0
of the MicroSoft assembler.  We use "PolyMake" from "POLYTRON"
(P.O. Box 787; Hillsboro, OR 97123; (503)648-8595).

There is a problem in that, on a 512KB PC, memory fills up.  Possibly,
before saying make in the "tn3270" directory, you should say make
in the "tn3270/api" directory.

The INCLUDE environmental variable is assumed to point to
the standard include files, plus to whereever the networking include
files are located.  These are files like <sys/socket.h>.  This is
assuming that you have a 4.2/3 network emulation package (UB offers such
a package with their product; my understanding is that FTP Software
is, or soon will be, offering such a package).

As mentioned in the last paragraph, we use Ungermann-Bass's library
to perform the networking functions.  Probably other vendors' libraries
could be integrated as well.

The file utilities/tarread.exe is a small program which reads tar
files on MS-DOS.  It is from Drew Perkins and CMU.  Many thanks
to them.
