Notesfiles revison 1.x

	This directory contains a release of the Unix notesfile
system as developed at the University of Illinois. The Notesfile 
concept was taken from PLATO (trademark CDC), a system developed for
CAI applications.
	The correct version of this distribution can be
found by looking for the string "$Header:" in the src directory.
Most files (some documentation files don't) have a version number in them.
The file "Revisions" in the src directory lists the version number of each
file in that directory.  If you can FTP this code from UIUC.ARPA, you
will then be able to grab this particular file to find out what
has changed and then selectively grab the modified files.
For FTP users, the packed file lives in /pub/Notes.tar on "uiuc.arpa"
and the unpacked tree is rooted at /pub/notes.

	The directories here contain:

doc	t/nroff source to the user manual
man	t/nroff sources used for man(1)
src	The source code for the system.
Samples	Some sample files that might make installation a little easier
utility	Some utility programs that I have found to be useful. They
	are, for the most part, undocumented. You'll have to read the
	code to figure out just what they mean.

The code is distributed configured for a 4.2 BSD system with a
standard directory structure. Anything else will likely require 
changs in the configuration. The best way to do this is to make a copy of
the user manual:

	cd doc
	make man

and read it. In particular, it tells you what you will have to change to
fit the system to your local configuration. The important part is
Appendix A which contains a checklist of what you might want to
modify to install the package.



	Please answer the questions in the file "Answer.this" and return
it to me (via computer or U.S. mail, it doesn't matter). I am supposed
to keep track of who gets copies of the code, and I imagine not all
of the copies will be distributed directly from me.

Problem reports, suggestions and the like will reach me at:

	Ray Essick
	222 Digital Computer Laboratory
	University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
	1304 West Springfield Avenue
	Urbana, Illinois	61801
	(217)-333-7937

	decvax!pur-ee!uiucdcs!essick
	        harpo!uiucdcs!essick
		ihnp4!uiucdcs!essick
	essick%uiuc@csnet-relay.arpa
	essick@uiuc.arpa

