.lh
.in 3i

.in -3i
.nf
Mary McDonald
University General Counsel
.sp 3
Dear Mary:
.fi
.sp
.pp
This letter outlines the steps that we proposed
to establish the Regent's copyright on the parts of the Fourth Berkeley
Software Distribution (4.2BSD and 4.3BSD) that are derived from work
done at the University of California, Berkeley.
Briefly, we plan to insert copyright notices into each of the separate
source files for original Berkeley work and major Berkeley additions.
This will be done in such a way
that the copyright notice will be included in the executable programs
when they are compiled from the copyrighted source.
We will also place a copyright notice on the label of each tape
shipped with the distribution, and examine the copyright notices in the
printed documentation for completeness.
The next release of the Fourth Berkeley Software Distribution, 4.3BSD,
will include all of these changes.
.pp
In order to reclaim the copyright on the material which was distributed
without copyright notices in 4.2BSD, we will send a letter, a draft
of which is attached, to all of the existing licensees of 4.2BSD
and to AT & T.
This letter will require each licensee to insert the copyright notices
in existing copies of the licensed material, and to similarly notify
anyone to whom they have licensed 4.2BSD sources.
I have not specifically addressed the question of binary-only
redistributions of 4.2BSD, which would not include most of the
files requiring modification.
Alternatively, licensees of 4.2BSD may replace their existing
licensed material with the 4.3BSD versions.
.pp
The copyright notices will be placed in each source file that was
originally written at Berkeley, or which was rewritten or substantially
modified at Berkeley such that the majority of the program was of
Berkeley origin.
In addition, programs which have been modified to the extent that
their function is significantly improved will also be marked
with the University copyright.
This distinction is different than the 90% derivation that we discussed,
but I believe it to be reasonable for those few programs that it covers.
Other programs that have not been modified,
or have been less substantially modified at Berkeley,
will not be marked as copyrighted.
Programs received from sources other than 32/V or University work
will also not be marked.
.pp
The copyright notices to be inserted are of the form
.nf
.in+1i

Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.

.in -1i
.fi
This will be surrounded by delimiters so that it will be ignored
by the programs which need to read the file.
For those programs which originated with 4.2BSD rather than 4.1BSD
or before, the copyright date will be 1983.
In the source files comprising a single program,
one notice of the form
.nf
.in +1i

char copyright[] =
"@(#) Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.\en\e
 All rights reserved.\en";

.in -1i
.fi
will also be included.
The part of the notice between quotes will be included
in the executable binary program after compilation, and would be displayed
when checking the version of the program.
.br
.ne 2i
.pp
A tentative list of the source files to be copyrighted is attached
as Appendix A.
This list is approximately the same as the list of files
that 4.2 licensees must modify, which will be attached to the letter
to the licensees.



.in 3i
.nf
Michael Karels
Principal Programmer
Computer Systems Research Group
.in -3i
.sp 2
.ta 4m
cc:	Bill Moser, Business Services
	Steele Lanphier, Patent Office
	Pauline Schwartz, CSRG
	Domenico Ferrari, EECS
.fi
.bp
.rs
.sp 2
.ce
Appendix A
.sp 2
.nf
.sz 8
.2c
.so AppendixA.short
