	 ==== /usr/lib/lisp directory ====

  This directory contains a number of different kinds of files.  The meanings
of the file suffixes are:
	.l - lisp source		.o - compiled lisp	
	.x - lisp cross reference   	.blat - messages from liszt

    -- Contents --

Makefile:
    Input for make program. Can compile foo.l files by saying 'make foo.o'

SCCS
    Directory for checkpointing source.

as:
    Berkeley assembler. Probably a copy of /bin/as except in those places
    whose internal politics prevent the berkeley assembler from being the
    standard one.
    This assembler is called from liszt.

auxfns0.l
    Most lisp coded lisp functions are in here.  
    * Loaded into the standard lisp.

auxfns1.l
    Other lisp coded lisp functions.  contains the pretty printer.
    * Loaded into the standard lisp.

backquote.l
    Contains the ever popular backquote macro and the sharp sign macro
    Also sets ; to be a comment character
    * Loaded into the standard lisp.

cmu
    This is a directory of lisp functions written at cmu that worked
    with the standard 4bsd distribution.  We are in the process of
    integrating this with opus 36.

cmu3m.l
    this is cmu3.l with many functions turned into macros.  this is work
    in progress.

cmumacs.l
    This is a collection of macros which are the equivalents of nlambda's
    found in the cmu files.  This file is incomplete but when finished
    it should allow us to create a 'cmu' environment for compiling.
    It is currently loaded by fix.l

cs284.l
    A set of functions for a discrimination net written by dhl at berkeley.
    These are written in a ucilisp form and load in the ucifnc compatibility
    package automatically.

editor.l
    Interlisp-like editor.  It will eventually be phased out
    in favor of cmu's version.

fix.l
    fixit package from cmu.   It has been modified to allow it to compile
    with only the macros in cmumacs.  this is autoloaded when the 
    function (debug) is invoked.

jkfmacs.l
    Some addition macros such as a nice 'If' macro and a msg macro for
    printing multiple values in one call.

loop.l
    loop package from mit.  Must be compiled with -m.

machacks.l
    a list of macros for generating a maclisp environment.

manual
    directory containing nroff output form of manual pages.

nld
    berkeley loader.  Probably a copy of /bin/ld.

step.l
    Step package from cmu (and from mit).  It has been modified for the
    new evalhook and funcallhook in Franz.  Will autoload when the 
    function step is referenced.

syscall.l
    A set of macros for doing syscall's.  very unix dependent at this point.

sysfunc.l
    file from cmu.  Probably should be removed and functions put elsewhere.
    
tackon
    program to put a 'fasl' type map onto an object file.
    use is: 'tackon map objectfile'

toplevel.l
    standard berkeley franz top level.  Contains top-level and break
    handlers as well as startup function for liszt -r and autoloads.

trace.l
    Joseph Lister Trace package from Berekeley.

ucido.l
    do function from ucilisp.  should be in ucifnc but isn't due to 
    supposed compiler problems (which I don't believe still exist).

ucifnc.l
    set of macros and functions for generating a ucilisp environment.
    automatically loaded when -u is done.

wholine.l
    a simple function for putting a line of text in the .who file to be
    read later on by h19sys.  This should probably be put somewhere 
    else.
