Title:		The X Window System

Authors:	Bob Scheifler
		MIT / Laboratory for Computer Science
		531 Tech Sq,
		Cambridge, Mass. 02139

		Jim Gettys
		MIT / Project Athena
		E40-342C
		Cambridge, Mass. 02139

Net addresses:	rws@bold.MIT.EDU	(rws@mit-bold.arpa)
		jg@athena.MIT.EDU	(jg@mit-athena.arpa)
		Xbugs@athena.MIT.EDU	(Xbugs@mit-athena.arpa)
		Xrequest@athena.MIT.EDU (Xrequest@mit-athena.arpa)

Other major contributors include Tony Della Fera, Mark Vandevoorde, Ron
Newman (Project Athena), Paul Johnson, Paul Asente (Stanford U.), Doug
Mink (SAO), Shane Hartman, Stuart Malone, (MIT-LCS), and Chris Kent
(Purdue).  The Sun implementation is thanks to Dave Rosenthal of Sun
Microsystems. Great thanks must be given to Digital's Unix Engineering Group
for the QDSS implementation, and to Digital's Workstations group for the
QVSS implementation.


Description:

X is a network transparent window system for bitmap displays that
currently runs on 6 different types of displays.  These include the DEC
VS100, VS1, VS2, VS2-GPX, the Lexidata 90, and most Sun Microsystems
displays, (not yet finished).  The implementations for the IBM RT/PC
displays (ACIS experimental display, APA8, APA16 did not quite make this
release. Other manufacturers are in the works.  The implementations here
are for the Digital Vs100, and Sun displays.  It should be possible
to port X to many different display architectures.  No presumption is
made in X that it can touch the bits on the screen directly, for
example.

The directory tree here includes all of the device independent X client
programs and the device dependent server for the DEC Vs100 developed at
MIT.  Contributions of other software are gratefully acknowledged.  This
has been a community effort for quite a while now, and the continuation
of this tradition would be helpful to all.  Most of the client code has
now been ported to several other non-Vax architectures and should be
reasonably easily portable across 4.2BSD based systems.

X supports overlapping windows, fully recursive subwindows, and
provides hooks for several different styles of user interface.
Applications provided include a terminal emulator (~Vt102 and Tek 4010),
bitmap editor, several window managers, access control program,
clock, window dump and undump programs, hardcopy printing program for
the LN03 printer, and several typesetting previewers.

If you don't like our window manager(s), go write your own....  Don't
bother us unless you CAN'T write it with the tools provided.

See the document in "doc/installation" for installation directions.

See the document in "doc/ddX.doc" for specification of the device dependent
library.

Inquiries about X should go to the "Xrequest" address above.
Please send bug reports to the "Xbugs" address above.

From here on out, the cat is out of the bag.  Have fun.  Read the
README file in X/X before you do anything.

We are most interested in talking to people actively porting this window
system to other hardware.

				Bob Scheifler
				Jim Gettys

Copyright 1984, 1985, 1986 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
