



							(date)

Keith Bostic
457 Evans Hall
Computer Systems Research Group
Computer Science Division
University of California
Berkeley, CA  94720

Dear Mr. Bostic:

Enclosed you will find the material known as (application) for inclusion
in Berkeley Software Distributions if you find it useful.  We own and have
title to this material and we have the authority to convey it to you for
inclusion in Berkeley Software Distributions.  We understand that you may
wish to modify this material before distribution, and have no objection
to your so doing.  Attached is a list of the names of the files which make
up this material.

It is understood that the term "inclusion" referred to in the above
paragraph means that The Regents have the right to distribute the material
to whomever it deems appropriate, provided that legal obligations to AT&T
are met prior to such distribution.  We understand that the terms and
conditions of the license under which the Berkeley Software Distribution
are made available may be modified at any time by The Regents of the
University of California.

It is further understood that licensees of Berkeley Software Distributions
have the right to sublicense Berkeley Software Distributions, with or
without modifications they may wish to make, provided that their legal
obligations to AT&T are met.

We also understand that you will attempt to ensure that the enclosed material
is distributed with the same provision regarding proper credit that is used
for material originating at the University of California; however, the
enclosed material is sent to you with no obligation that you, The Regents
of the University of California, or any employees of The Regents actually
ensure proper credit or provide any other specific protection for this
material.

We do not intend by forwarding this material to you to enter into a
contractual relationship; rather, we are providing this material for use
in the Berkeley Software Distribution in order to make a contribution to
the community of UNIX users.

No part of this material is based on proprietary material of AT&T or
any entity or person other than the undersigned.

I'd like my name in the contributors list as (your name here).

I was attending or working for (your university or employer here)
when I did this work.

(name)

(organization)
