#	@(#)README	5.2 (Berkeley) %G%

alpha2.1 release.
Wed Sep 30 14:43:10 EDT 1992
henry@zoo.toronto.edu

New in alpha2.1:  Lots of little stuff, cleanup and fixes.  The one big
thing is that regex.h is now generated, using mkh, rather than being
supplied in the distribution; due to circularities in dependencies,
you have to build regex.h explicitly by "make h".  The two known bugs
have been fixed (and the regression test now checks for them), as has a
problem with assertions not being suppressed in the absence of REDEBUG.
No performance work yet.

New in alpha2:  Backslash-anything is an ordinary character, not an
error (except, of course, for the handful of backslashed metacharacters
in BREs), which should reduce script breakage.  The regression test
checks *where* null strings are supposed to match, and has generally
been tightened up somewhat.  Small bug fixes in parameter passing (not
harmful, but technically errors) and some other areas.  Debugging
invoked by defining REDEBUG rather than not defining NDEBUG.

New in alpha+3:  full prototyping for internal routines, using a little
helper program, mkh, which extracts prototypes given in stylized comments.
More minor cleanup.  Buglet fix:  it's CHAR_BIT, not CHAR_BITS.  Simple
pre-screening of input when a literal string is known to be part of the
RE; this does wonders for performance.

New in alpha+2:  minor bits of cleanup.  Notably, the number "32" for the
word width isn't hardwired into regexec.c any more, the public header
file prototypes the functions if __STDC__ is defined, and some small typos
in the manpages have been fixed.

New in alpha+1:  improvements to the manual pages, and an important
extension, the REG_STARTEND option to regexec().

installation notes:
--------
If you have an ANSI compiler, delete limits.h, stdlib.h, and memmove.c
(all of which are fakes for things not found on old systems), and in
Makefile, take -Dconst= out of CFLAGS and -o out of MKHFLAGS and delete
all references to memmove.  If you want the Berkeley __P macro used in
prototypes, add -b to MKHFLAGS.

Do not take -DPOSIX_MISTAKE out of CFLAGS.  You probably want to take
-DREDEBUG out, to get rid of all the assertion tests, for building production
versions after you've run the regression test.  (The regression test won't
quite compile without it at the moment.)  You also probably want -O or
some more complex variation for production compilation.

Utils.h contains some things that just might have to be modified on
some systems, as well as a nested include (ugh) of <assert.h>.

Split.c is used for regression testing but is not part of the RE routines
themselves.

"make h" builds regex.h, which is needed for everything else.

After that, just "make" will build regcomp.o, regexec.o, regfree.o,
and regerror.o (the actual routines), bundle them together into a test
program, and run a regression test on them.  No output is good output.

"make o" builds just the .o files for the actual routines.

Regex.h is for /usr/include.  All other .h files are internal only.
--------
