.TL
User Contributed Software
.LP
The subtree /usr/src/new contains programs contributed by the user
community.  The following software is included:
.DS
.TS
center, box;
l l l.
Directory	Description	Contributor(s)
_
B	B progamming language & environment	CWI
X	X Window system	M.I.T.
ansi	ANSI and VMS standard tape handler	Tom Quarles, Berkeley
apl	APL system	Purdue
bib	bibliography system	Arizona
courier	remote procedure call package	Eric Cooper, Berkeley
cpm	CP/M floppy access package	Helge Skrivervik
dipress	Xerox Interpress Tools	Xerox
dsh	distributed shell	Dave Presotto, Berkeley
emacs	Gnumacs	Richard Stallman
enet	Packet filter	Jeff Mogul, Stanford
help	Help system	John Kunze, Berkeley
hyper	Hyperchannel support tools	Steve Glaser, Tektronix
icon	ICON system	Arizona
jove	Emacs editor	Jon Payne
kermit	File transfer protocol	Columbia University
mh	MH mail system	Rand Corporation
mkmf	Makefile generator	Peter Nicklin, Berkeley
mmdf	MMDF mail system	Dr. Dave Farber, Delaware
news	``readnews'' bulletin board system	Matt Glickman, Berkeley
notes	notes files bulletin board system	Illinois
np100	Utilities for Interlan NP100	MICOM-Interlan
patch	apply diffs to originals	Larry Wall, SDC
pathalias	uucp router	Peter Honeyman, Princeton
rcs	revision control system	Walter Tichy, Purdue
rn	readnews front end	Larry Wall
spms	software project management system	Peter Nicklin, Berkeley
sumacc	MacIntosh cross development system	William Croft, Stanford
sunrpc	Remote procedure call package	Sun Microsystems
tac	reverse a file by segments	Jay Lepreau, Utah
tools	miscellaneous tools	John Kunze, Berkeley
umodem	File transfer protocol	Lauren Weinstein
xns	XNS/Courier user code	J.Q. Johnson, Cornell
.TE
.DE
.PP
The individuals responsible for the software should be identified in
the accompanying 4.3BSD documents which describe the user contributed
software.  All software included here has been written by outside
parties; we gratefully acknowledge their contributions.
.PP
Consult ``Installing and Operating 4.3BSD on the VAX'' (SMM:1) for
instructions on how to extract the user contributed software.
The organization of the software is such that a single make command
will compile and/or install most of it. Some of the software requires
customization before it can be built and installed. The software
requiring customization is listed in the top level Makefile in OPTDIR.
To compile everything else, simply type
.DS
	make
.DE
Once this is done, to install the default software in the /usr/new
area of the file system type
.DS
	make installall
.DE
to install only the subset of software installed on the distribution
tape type
.DS
	make install
.DE
Most subdirectories have README files and individual Makefiles.  If
you want only some of the software contained here go to the appropriate
directories and use the ``make'' and ``make install'' commands to compile
and install the desired system.  As distributed, all the default software
is set up to be installed in ${DESTDIR}/usr/new, where DESTDIR is a make
macro that can be supplied on the command line.  Consult each directory's
README file for the information needed to change this.
.PP
The software included here is in use at Berkeley, or other sites
running 4.3BSD (or an earlier derivative). Please remember that this is
contributed software and, as such, we do not ``support'' it in the same
manner as that software which is part of the standard distribution.
Most subsystems have either a README file or doc directory that
should be consulted to find an interested party to which bugs and/or
bug fixes should be sent. In certain cases these people are located at
Berkeley; this does not imply they are part of the Computer Systems
Research Group, please contact them as individuals.
.DS
	Mike Karels
	Kirk Mckusick
	Jim Bloom
	Miriam Amos
	Kevin Dunlap
.DE
