Mailing lists for GNU Emacs:

Bug reports, fixes for bugs, and suggestions for improvements in GNU
Emacs should be sent to bug-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu (Internet
address) or ...!ucbvax!prep.ai.mit.edu!bug-gnu-emacs (Usenet address).
If you think something is a bug in Emacs, it might be one; or, it
might be a misunderstanding or even a feature.  Before beginning to
report bugs, please read the section ``Reporting Emacs Bugs'' toward
the end of the GNU Emacs reference manual (or the built-in Info system)
for a discussion of how and when to send in bug reports.

Do not expect an answer for a bug report, except sometimes in the form
of a fix for the bug in the next release.  Reporting a bug is done to
get the bug fixed for everyone.  Likewise, we maintainers fix bugs in
order to help the entire community.  We see no such duty to aid
individuals one at a time, such as by sending them individual
messages, and have no time to do this since we are busy doing things
for the entire community.  If you want help for yourself in particular,
you may have to hire someone.  You might find one by looking in the
the service list (file SERVICE in this directory).

Anything addressed to the implementers and maintainers of GNU Emacs
should be sent to those addresses also, NOT to info-gnu-emacs.

Information and questions addressed to the general user community
are sent to info-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu (Internet address)
or ...!ucbvax!prep.ai.mit.edu!info-gnu-emacs (Usenet address).
This list forwards onto the newsgroup net.emacs.  Since it is
a very large list, don't send it anything that is not seriously
important to many people.

Most of the time, when you reply to a message sent to info-gnu-emacs,
the reply should not go to info-gnu-emacs.  But most mailer reading
programs supply all the recipients of the original as recipients of
the reply, by default.  Make a point of deleting info-gnu-emacs from the
list when it does not belong.

Another list, info-gnu, is used for reports of progress in the
GNU project in general, and for requests for people to do work.

Send messages ABOUT these lists, such as reports of mail problems, or
requests to be added or removed, to info-gnu-emacs-request (or
info-gnu-request, or bug-gnu-emacs-request), NOT to info-gnu-emacs or
bug-gnu-emacs.  info-gnu-emacs-request goes only to the people who can
do something about these things, and thus avoids disturbing everyone
else.

