intro(8) intro: introduction to system maintenance and operation commands.
ac(8) ac: display connect time accounting.
acucntrl(8) acucntrl: turn around tty line between dialin and dialout.
adduser(8) adduser: procedure for adding new users.
amd(8) amd: automatically mount file systems.
amq(8) amq: automounter query tool.
arp(8) arp: address resolution display and control.
bad144(8) bad144: read/write dec standard 144 bad sector information.
badsect(8) badsect: create files to contain bad sectors.
boot_hp300(8) boot: system bootstrapping procedures.
bugfiler(8) bugfiler: file bug reports in folders automatically.
chown(8) chown: change file owner and group.
chroot(8) chroot: change root directory.
clri(8) clri: clear i-node.
comsat(8) comsat: biff server.
config(8) config: build system configuration files.
crash(8) crash: UNIX system failures.
cron(8) cron: clock daemon.
dev_mkdb(8) dev_mkdb: create /dev database.
disklabel(8) disklabel: read and write disk pack label.
diskpart(8) diskpart: calculate default disk partition sizes.
dm(8) dm: dungeon master.
dmesg(8) dmesg: display the system message buffer.
dump(8) dump: filesystem backup.
dumpfs(8) dumpfs: dump file system information.
dumplfs(8) dumplfs: dump file system information.
edquota(8) edquota: edit user quotas.
eeprom(8) eeprom: openprom control utility.
ext_srvtab(8) ext_srvtab: extract service key files from Kerberos key distribution center database.
fastboot(8) fastboot, fasthalt: reboot/halt the system without checking the disks.
fingerd(8) fingerd: remote user information server.
format(8) format: how to format disks and tapes.
fsck(8) fsck: filesystem consistency check and interactive repair.
fsdb(8) fsdb: file system debugger.
fsinfo(8) fsinfo: co-ordinate site-wide filesystem information.
ftpd(8) ftpd: Internet File Transfer Protocol server.
getty(8) getty: set terminal mode.
icheck(8) icheck: file system storage consistency check.
ifconfig(8) ifconfig: configure network interface parameters.
inetd(8) inetd: internet super-server.
init(8) init: process control initialization.
iostat(8) iostat: report I/O statistics.
kdb_destroy(8) kdb_destroy: destroy Kerberos key distribution center database.
kdb_edit(8) kdb_edit: Kerberos key distribution center database editing utility.
kdb_init(8) kdb_init: initialize Kerberos key distribution center database.
kdb_util(8) kdb_util: Kerberos key distribution center database utility.
kgmon(8) kgmon: generate a dump of the operating system's profile buffers.
kpasswdd(8) kpasswdd: Kerberos password changing daemon.
kstash(8) kstash: stash Kerberos key distribution center database master key.
kvm_mkdb(8) kvm_mkdb: create kernel database.
lfs_cleanerd(8) lfs_cleanerd: garbage collect a log-structured file system.
lpc(8) lpc: line printer control program.
lpd(8) lpd: line printer spooler daemon.
mail.local(8) mail.local: store mail in a mailbox.
makedev(8) makedev: make system special files.
MAKEDEV(8) MAKEDEV: create system and device special files.
makekey(8) makekey: make encrypted keys or passwords.
makemap(8) makemap: create database maps for sendmail.
make_keypair(8) make_keypair: generate Kerberos host key pair.
mk-amd-map(8) mk-amd-map: create database maps for Amd.
mknod(8) mknod: build special file.
mkproto(8) mkproto: construct a prototype file system.
mount(8) mount, umount: mount and dismount file systems.
mountd(8) mountd: service remote NFS mount requests.
mount_fdesc(8) mount_fdesc: mount the file-descriptor file system.
mount_kernfs(8) mount_kernfs: mount the /kern file system.
mount_lfs(8) mount_lfs: mount a log-structured file system.
mount_lofs(8) mount_lofs: mount a virtual copy of an existing filesystem sub-tree.
mount_nfs(8) mount_nfs: mount nfs file systems.
mount_null(8) mount_null: demonstrate the use of a null file system layer.
mount_portal(8) mount_portal: mount the portal daemon.
mount_umap(8) mount_umap: sample file system layer.
mtree(8) mtree: map a directory hierarchy.
named(8) named: Internet domain name server.
named-xfer(8) named-xfer: ancillary agent for inbound zone transfers.
named.reload(8) named.reload: cause the name server to synchronize its database.
named.restart(8) named.restart: stop and restart the name server.
ncheck(8) ncheck: generate names from i-numbers.
newfs(8) newfs, mfs: construct a new file system.
newlfs(8) newlfs: construct a new LFS file system.
nfsd(8) nfsd: remote NFS server.
nfsiod(8) nfsiod: local NFS asynchronous I/O server.
nologin(8) nologin: politely refuse a login.
nvi.recover(8) nvi.recover: send mail about recoverable files.
pac(8) pac: printer/plotter accounting information.
ping(8) ping: send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST packets to network hosts.
portmap(8) portmap: DARPA port to RPC program number mapper.
pstat(8) pstat: display system data structures.
pwd_mkdb(8) pwd_mkdb: generate the password databases.
quot(8) quot: display total block usage per user for a file system.
quotacheck(8) quotacheck: filesystem quota consistency checker.
quotaon(8) quotaon, quotaoff: turn filesystem quotas on and off.
rbootd(8) rbootd: HP remote boot server.
rc(8) rc: command script for auto\-reboot and daemons.
reboot(8) reboot, halt: stopping and restarting the system.
registerd(8) registerd: Kerberos registration daemon.
renice(8) renice: alter priority of running processes.
repquota(8) repquota: summarize quotas for a file system.
restore(8) restore: restore files or file systems from backups made with dump.
rexecd(8) rexecd: remote execution server.
rlogind(8) rlogind: remote login server.
rmail(8) rmail: handle remote mail received via uucp.
rmt(8) rmt: remote magtape protocol module.
route(8) route: manually manipulate the routing tables (Interim).
routed(8) routed: network routing daemon.
rshd(8) rshd: remote shell server.
rwhod(8) rwhod: system status server.
sa(8) sa, accton: system accounting.
savecore(8) savecore: save a core dump of the operating system.
scsiformat(8) scsiformat: format SCSI disks and show SCSI parameters.
sendmail(8) sendmail: send mail over the internet.
showmount(8) showmount: show remote nfs mounts on host.
shutdown(8) shutdown: close down the system at a given time.
slattach(8) slattach: attach serial lines as network interfaces.
sliplogin(8) sliplogin: attach a serial line network interface.
sticky(8) sticky: sticky text and append-only directories.
strfile(8) strfile, unstr: create a random access file for storing strings.
swapon(8) swapon: specify additional device for paging and swapping.
sync(8) sync: force completion of pending disk writes (flush cache).
sysctl(8) sysctl: get or set kernel state.
syslogd(8) syslogd: log systems messages.
talkd(8) talkd: remote user communication server.
telnetd(8) telnetd: DARPA TELNET protocol server.
tftpd(8) tftpd: Internet Trivial File Transfer Protocol server.
timed(8) timed: time server daemon.
timedc(8) timedc: timed control program.
traceroute(8) traceroute: print the route packets take to network host.
trpt(8) trpt: transliterate protocol trace.
trsp(8) trsp: transliterate sequenced packet protocol trace.
tunefs(8) tunefs: tune up an existing file system.
update(8) update: flush internal filesystem caches to disk frequently.
uucico(8) uucico, uucpd: transfer files queued by uucp or uux.
uuclean(8) uuclean: uucp spool directory clean-up.
uupoll(8) uupoll: poll a remote UUCP site.
uusnap(8) uusnap: show snapshot of the UUCP system.
uuxqt(8) uuxqt: UUCP execution file interpreter.
vipw(8) vipw: edit the password file.
vmstat(8) vmstat: report virtual memory statistics.
XNSrouted(8) XNSrouted: NS Routing Information Protocol daemon.
zic(8) zic: time zone compiler.
