Copyright (c) Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, 1984.

HOW'TO INSTALL Mark1:

Welcome to B.

This is the Mark1C implementation of B for Unix(c) systems. Unless
stripped by Berkeley you can port it to other machines then those
running your 4.3 BSD distribution.

You will need 2.5 megabytes in total to compile and load the system.
You should start the installation from this directory by typing:

        Setup

which will ask you some questions to set the B system up on your installa-
tion.  You can call `Setup' any number of times without spoiling files.  So
run it once to see what questions you will be asked.  If you don't know the
answer to some question, you can run it again.

        make all

will compile and load the B system, install the `b' command file in ./bin
and the binaries and datafiles it needs in ./lib.  You can test the B
interpreter with:

        make examples

This runs some examples in ./ex. It does not test the B editor, however;
that can only be done interactively.  Try that in ./ex/try.  Consult the
sheet `HOW'TO TRY the B editor' (also in ./ex/try/README).

If all is well and you want to make B public

        make install

will do some recompilations to get the right pathnames in, and install the
`b' shell command file, the `b.1' manual file, and the auxiliary files in
the directories you indicated during setup.  Finally

        make clean

will clean all intermediate object files from the source directories.

To run the B system you only need the commands, binaries and data files
installed in ./bin and ./lib.  If you have made B public, all necessary
files have been copied to the public places, and you can get rid of the
entire B file system hierarchy you extracted from the tape, if you want.

If there are any problems, don't panic.  Edit the example Bug Report form
in ./doc to communicate the problem to us.  We will then send out diffs for
fixed problems in the future.

Above all, we would be very grateful to receive any comments you have about
the setup procedure, or the B system in general, on how to make it easier
to use.

Good luck!
