.\"	@(#)Cover	1.2 (Berkeley) %G%
.\" use -ms
.\"
.so HEADERS
.FH
.sp .75i
.tl '''April 1, 1994'
.LP
Dear Colleague:
.sp
.PP
We are delighted, at long last, to send you information about
our April 1994 release of 4.4BSD-Lite.
The University and UNIX System Laboratories
have resolved the issues surrounding the second BSD Networking
Release (Net/2) distribution (see attached press release),
and the University is now able to release
4.4BSD-Lite under terms similar to those of Net/2.
.PP
The 4.4BSD-Lite software is copyrighted by the University of California
and others, but may be freely redistributed without fee.
It is available to anyone and requires no previous license
from AT&T, Novell/USL, or The Regents of the University of California.
The distribution includes both software developed at Berkeley
and much software contributed by authors outside of Berkeley.
The code in this distribution may be redistributed and used
in released products without fee, provided that the due credit
requirements described in the license and the source files are met.
.PP
This packet is intended to serve two purposes.
The first is to acquaint you with the details of our distribution
so you may decide if you wish to purchase it.
The second is to inform you how to obtain our distribution.
.SH
Distribution contents
.PP
.B "The distribution is a source distribution only,"
.B "and does not contain program binaries for any architecture."
It will not be possible to compile or run this software
without a pre-existing system that is already installed and running.
In addition, the distribution does not include sources for a complete system.
It includes source code and manual pages for the C library,
approximately 90% of the utilities distributed as part of 4.4BSD,
and most of the kernel (the same subsystems that were deleted in Net/2
are still missing in 4.4BSD-Lite \(em support for executing files,
doing physical I/O, managing the buffer cache,
handling process tracing, terminal character I/O, and doing accounting).
Because of the CSRG will be closing down after this release,
there will not be anyone available at Berkeley to assist with problems,
so sites are encouraged to ensure sufficient local expertise to
find and fix any problems that are encountered.
.PP
We have attempted to make the system as compliant with the ANSI C and
IEEE POSIX 1003.1 and 1003.2 standards as was possible at the time
of its release.
We have not run it through any of the verification test suites, thus,
you should not claim conformance with either standard without
first validing the code.
.PP
This software distribution is only available on two 6250bpi 1/2''
9-track tapes or one 8mm Exabyte cassette.
The 4.4BSD-Lite distribution contains source
for the following architectures:
.IP \(bu
HP 9000/300 68000-based workstations.
.IP \(bu
DECstation 3100 and 5000 MIPS-based workstations.
.IP \(bu
Sparcstation I & II SPARC-based workstations.
(Please note that the distribution does
.B not
support the Sparcstation 10.)
.IP \(bu
Sony News MIPS-based workstations
.IP \(bu
Omron Luna 68000-based workstations
.IP \(bu
Intel 386/486-based machines (ISA/AT or EISA bus only)
.LP
The distribution does
.B not
include the machine support for the Tahoe and VAX architectures
found in previous BSD distributions.
Our primary development environment is the HP9000/300 series machines.
The other architectures are developed and supported by
people outside the university.
Consequently, we are not able to directly test or maintain these 
other architectures, so cannot comment on their robustness,
reliability, or completeness.
More specifically, the support for the x86 architectures is known to
be unstable.
.PP
The major new facilities available in the 4.4BSD-Lite release are
a new virtual memory system, 
the addition of ISO/OSI networking support,
a new virtual filesystem interface supporting filesystem stacking,
a freely redistributable implementation of NFS,
a log-structured filesystem,
enhancement of the local filesystems to support
files and filesystems that are up to 2^63 bytes in size,
an ISO CDROM 9660 filesystem with Rockridge extensions,
enhanced security and system management support,
and the conversion to and addition of the IEEE Std1003.1 (``POSIX'')
facilities and many of the IEEE Std1003.2 facilities.
In addition, many new tools and additions to the C library are present.
The kernel sources have been reorganized to collect all machine-dependent
files for each architecture under one directory,
and most of the machine-independent code is now free of code
conditional on specific machines.
The user structure and process structure have been reorganized
to eliminate the statically-mapped user structure and to make most
of the process resources shareable by multiple processes.
The system and include files have been converted to be compatible
with ANSI C, including function prototypes for the exported functions.
There are numerous other changes throughout the system.
.PP
The new virtual memory implementation is derived from the MACH
operating system developed at Carnegie-Mellon University,
and was ported to the BSD kernel at the University of Utah.
The MACH virtual memory system call interface has been replaced with the
``mmap''-based interface described in the ``Berkeley Software
Architecture Manual'' (see the UNIX Programmer's Manual, 
Supplementary Documents, PSD:5).
The interface is similar to the interfaces shipped
by several commercial vendors such as Sun, Novell/USL,
and Convex Computer Corp., and as described by POSIX 1003.4.
The integration of the new virtual memory is functionally complete,
but still has serious performance problems under heavy memory load.
The internal kernel interfaces have not yet been completed
and the memory pool and buffer cache have not been merged.
.PP
The ISO/OSI Networking consists of a kernel implementation of
transport class 4 (TP-4),
connectionless networking protocol (CLNP),
and 802.3-based link-level support (hardware-compatible with Ethernet*).
.FS
*Ethernet is a trademark of the Xerox Corporation.
.FE
We also include support for ISO Connection-Oriented Network Service,
X.25, TP-0.
The session and presentation layers are provided outside
the kernel by the ISO development environment (ISODE).
Included in this development environment are file
transfer and management (FTAM), virtual terminals (VT),
a directory services implementation (X.500), and miscellaneous other
utilities.
.PP
A new virtual filesystem interface has been added to the
kernel to support multiple filesystems.
In comparison with other interfaces,
the Berkeley interface has been structured for more efficient support
of filesystems that maintain state (such as the local filesystem).
The interface has been extended with support for stackable
filesystems done at UCLA.
These extensions allow for filesystems to be layered on top of each
other and allow new vnode operations to be added without requiring
changes to existing filesystem implementations.
.PP
In addition to the local ``fast filesystem'',
we have added an implementation of the network filesystem (NFS)
that fully interoperates with the NFS shipped by Sun and its licensees.
Because our NFS implementation was implemented using only the
publicly available NFS specification,
it does not require a license from Sun to use in source or binary form.
By default it runs over UDP to be compatible with Sun's implementation.
However, it can be configured on a per-mount basis to run over TCP.
Using TCP allows it to be used quickly and efficiently through
gateways and over long-haul networks.
Using an extended protocol, it supports Leases to allow a limited
callback mechanism that greatly reduces the network traffic necessary
to maintain cache consistency between the server and its clients.
.PP
A new log-structured filesystem has been added that provides
near disk-speed output and fast crash recovery.
It is still experimental in the 4.4BSD-Lite release,
so we do not recommend it for production use.
We have also added a memory-based filesystem that runs in
pageable memory, allowing large temporary filesystems without
requiring dedicated physical memory.
.PP
The local ``fast filesystem'' has been enhanced to do 
clustering which allows large pieces of files to be
allocated contiguously resulting in near doubling
of filesystem throughput.
The filesystem interface has been extended to allow
files and filesystems to grow to 2^63 bytes in size.
The quota system has been rewritten to support both
user and group quotas (simultaneously if desired).
Quota expiration is based on time rather than
the previous metric of number of logins over quota.
This change makes quotas more useful on fileservers
onto which users seldom login.
.PP
The system security has been greatly enhanced by the
addition of additional file flags that permit a file to be
marked as immutable or append only.
Once set, these flags can only be cleared by the super-user
when the system is running single user.
To protect against indiscriminate reading or writing of kernel
memory, all writing and most reading of kernel data structures
must be done using a new ``sysctl'' interface.
The information to be access is described through an extensible
``Management Information Base'' (MIB).
.PP
The 4.4BSD-Lite distribution contains most of the interfaces
specified in the IEEE Std1003.1 system interface standard.
The biggest area of change is a new terminal driver.
The terminal driver is similar to the System V terminal driver
with the addition of the necessary extensions to get the
functionality previously available in the 4.3BSD terminal driver.
4.4BSD-Lite also adds the IEEE Std1003.1 job control interface,
which is similar to the 4.3BSD job control interface,
but adds a security model that was missing in the
4.3BSD job control implementation.
Other additions include IEEE Std1003.1 signals, FIFOs,
byte-range file locking, and saved user and group identifiers.
.PP
There are several new tools and utilities included in this release.
A new version of make allows much-simplified makefiles for the system software
and allows compilation for multiple architectures from the same source tree
(which may be mounted read-only).
Notable additions to the libraries include functions to traverse a
filesystem hierarchy, database interfaces to btree and hashing functions,
a new, fast implementation of stdio and radix and merge sort functions.
The additions to the utility suite include greatly enhanced versions of
programs that display system status information, new implementations of
various traditional tools described in the IEEE Std1003.2 standard,
and many others.
.PP
We have been tracking the IEEE Std1003.2 shell and utility work
and have included prototypes of many of the proposed utilities.
Because most of the traditional utilities have been replaced
with implementations conformant to the POSIX standards,
you should realize that the utility software may not be as stable,
reliable or well documented as in traditional Berkeley releases.
In particular, almost the entire manual suite has been rewritten to
reflect the POSIX defined interfaces, and in some instances
it does not correctly reflect the current state of the software.
It is also worth noting that, in rewriting this software, we have generally
been rewarded with significant performance improvements.
Most of the libraries and header files have been converted
to be compliant with ANSI C.
The default compiler (gcc) is a superset of ANSI C,
but supports traditional C as a command-line option.
The system libraries and utilities all compile
with either ANSI or traditional C.
.PP
Work has also progressed in several other areas.
Several important enhancements have been added to the TCP/IP
protocols including TCP header prediction and
serial line IP (SLIP) with header compression.
Ethernet multicast support is now available.
The routing implementation has been completely rewritten
to use a hierarchical routing tree with a mask per route
to support the arbitrary levels of routing found in the ISO protocols.
The routing table also stores and caches route characteristics
to speed the adaptation of the throughput and congestion avoidance
algorithms.
.PP
The Kerberos (version 4) authentication software has been
integrated into much of the system (including NFS) to provide
the first real network authentication on BSD.
.PP
This release includes several important structural kernel changes.
The kernel uses a new internal system call convention;
the use of global (``u-dot'') variables for parameters and error returns
has been eliminated,
and interrupted system calls no longer abort using non-local goto's (longjmp's).
A new sleep interface separates signal handling from scheduling priority,
returning characteristic errors to abort or restart the current system call.
This sleep call also passes a string describing the process state,
which is used by the ps(1) program.
The old sleep interface can be used only for non-interruptible sleeps.
The sleep interface (\fItsleep\fP) can be used at any priority,
but is only interruptible if the PCATCH flag is set.
When interrupted, \fItsleep\fP returns EINTR or ERESTART.
.PP
Many data structures that were previously statically allocated
are now allocated dynamically.
These structures include mount entries, file entries,
user open file descriptors, the process entries, the vnode table,
the name cache, and the quota structures.
.SH
How to obtain 4.4BSD-Lite
.PP
To obtain 4.4BSD-Lite
we require execution of the Berkeley License Agreement (6/92).
In addition, foreign licensees must execute Addendum Number One for 
Foreign Licensees in ordering 4.4BSD-Lite.
The fee is $1000.00 for 4.4BSD-Lite.
.PP
Because we are a research and development organization
and not a commercial organization,
we make our research results available for a small license fee.
We distribute only the whole system ``As Is''
and cannot send individual pieces of the system.
We are required by the University of California to have
a formal license arrangement with each
organization to which we distribute. 
.PP
Specifically, for 4.4BSD-Lite, we must receive from your organization the
following material before the distribution can be sent:
.IP \(bu
\fBTwo\fR original signed and executed copies of
the Berkeley License Agreement (6/92) between your company
or institution and The Regents of the University of California
along with Exhibit A properly filled out.
For Foreign licensees, there is an Addendum to
the License Agreement that must also be executed.
Please have this person's name and title 
.B 
typed 
.R
in the available space in addition to the signature.
One signed copy of the Berkeley License Agreement will be
returned to you after it has been executed by
The Regents of the University of California.
.IP \(bu
A check from a U.S. bank for $1000.00 must be received before
the distribution can be sent.
Checks should be made payable to 
``The Regents of the University of California,
Computer Systems Research Group.'' 
If you must issue a Purchase Order,
together with your prepayment, 
please issue one that is blank-backed.
If this is not possible,
insert and initial in the body of the Purchase Order the following clause:
``The terms and conditions of this Purchase Order
are not accepted by The Regents of the University of California.
The revised Berkeley License Agreement (6/92) prevails.''
Wire transfers are strongly discouraged.
.IP \(bu
The attached Site Information Form completely filled out.
Your copy of the signed 4.4BSD-Lite License Agreement
will be sent to the person listed as the administrative contact.
The distribution itself will be sent to the technical contact.
All information is kept confidential;
it is for our use in notifying you of important bug fixes.
Please note that we cannot ship to post office boxes;
therefore, please have the technical contact's address
supplied without use of a post office box.
.PP
A checklist is included to aid you in assembling this material.
All the above material must be sent to:
.DS
Pauline Schwartz, Distribution Coordinator
Computer Systems Research Group
Computer Science Division, EECS
University of California
Berkeley, California 94720
.DE
Once all these items have been received and are in proper order,
the distribution will be sent to the technical address listed on the
Site Information Form.
We cannot provide delivery dates.
Once the material is assembled and packaged,
the distribution is shipped by commercial carrier.
Order of shipment will be based on time
of arrival of the properly completed paperwork.
Because of the differential in costs of shipping outside the United States,
we ask that organizations beyond the North American continent pay
the collect shipping charges.
If the destination is one where collect shipment
cannot be made by the carrier,
then advance payment of the shipping charges will be required.
.PP
The most expedient way to ensure that your full distribution
is sent as quickly as possible is to include in a single
package two original copies of the appropriate
Berkeley License Agreement completed
and properly signed (\fBwithout change\fR),
the appropriate check properly made out to 
``The Regents of the University of California,
Computer Systems Research Group'' and a completely filled out
Site Information Form and to send this single package
to the address noted above.
.PP
Please note that if you modify the Berkeley License Agreement,
you may experience a delay of three months or more before 
receiving an acceptance or denial of the changes.
We reserve the right to cancel your application if we have
not received the requested paperwork within 60 days
from the date it was sent to us.
.SH
Special Cases
.PP
\fBUniversity of California Sites\fR.
If you are a part of the University of California,
the following items must be sent to the Computer Systems Research Group:
1) a letter of authorization signed by the Director or Head of Department 
requesting 4.4BSD-Lite,
stating that you have read and understood the Berkeley
License Agreement (6/92) and that your organization
will abide by it;
2) an IOC for $1,000.00; and
3) a Site Information Form.
.SH
A Special Note 
.PP
The procedures and rules set out in this document
are University constraints that must be followed
for the distribution of software to be possible.
The Computer Systems Research Group has no control over
these constraints and must reject your application if
material submitted is not in order.
If you have questions about the licensing process after reading
this letter, you may call Pauline Schwartz at (510) 642-7780,
write to her, or contact her via electronic mail at pauline@cs.berkeley.edu.
.sp 2
.nf
.in +2.5i
Sincerely yours,
.sp 3
Marshall Kirk McKusick
.sp 3
Keith Bostic
.br
Computer Systems Research Group
