

4.0 User Applications
---------------------

4.0.1:	I want to run X, how do I go about it?

First, get the XFree86 distribution of X11R5 from XFree86.cdrom.com.  The
version you want for FreeBSD 1.1 and later is XFree86 2.1.  Follow the
instructions for installation carefully. You may then wish to read the
documentation for the ConfigXF86 tool, which assists you in configuring
XFree86 for your particular graphics card/mouse/etc.


4.0.1:	I've been trying to run ghostscript on a 386 with no math-co but
        keep getting errors.  Whats up?

The problem here is due to the current FreeBSD math-emulator.  You need to
pick up the package in /usr/src/contrib/FAQ/programs/math-emulator.tar.gz

Run the install program, recompile your kernel and install the new kernel.
This is a port of an older Linux math-emulator.  At some point, FreeBSD's
default math emulator will be good enough to enable you to forget about
having to do this.


4.0.2:	If I want something like seyon, term, kermit, emacs or any one of
	hundreds of popular freeware utilities, is there a good place to
	search through first?

Yes, the FreeBSD `ports collection' was put together for just that purpose.
It contains some of the most often requested languages, editors, mail and
news reading programs, network software and many many megabytes of other
types of useful goodies.  CDROM people will probably have the ports collection
already in /usr/ports, other folks can get at the latest snapshot of the
entire collection in:

	freebsd.cdrom.com:~ftp/pub/FreeBSD/FreeBSD-current/ports

Note that freebsd's ftp server permits getting entire directories as one
(optionally gzip'd or compressed) tar file.  Read the ftp welcome banner
carefully for details.


4.0.3:	I want all this neat software, but I haven't got the space or
	CPU power to compile it all myself.  Is there any way of getting
	binaries?

Yes.  FreeBSD supports the concept of a `package', which is
essentially a gzip'd binary distribution with a little extra
intelligence imbeded in it for doing any custom installation work
required.  Packages can also be installed or deinstalled again easily
without having to know the gory details.  CDROM people will have a
packages/ directory on their CD, others can get the currently
available packages from:

	freebsd.cdrom.com:~ftp/pub/FreeBSD/packages-1.1

Note that all ports may not be available as packages, and that new
packages are constantly being added.  It is always a good idea to
check periodically to see which packages are available.  A README
file in the packages directory provides more details on the care
and feeding of the package software, so no explicit details will
be given here.

