
			S E N D M A I L

Presumably by the time you get to this READ_ME file, you will have
already read the tape in, or will have received this distribution as
part of 4.2bsd.  If you do not yet have the distribution online, read
the tape in now -- you will need about one megabyte to hold the tape.

The first thing you should look at is the documentation.  The two
critical documents are "doc/intro.me" and "doc/op.me".  Read both
of these before proceeding with your installation.  If you have read
these before, you should still read through the second one again
anyhow, since the installation procedures change occasionally.

A brief tour:
	FILES	  A list of the files on the tape.
	Makefile  A Makefile that will do a vanilla install for you.
	adb	  A set of adb(1) scripts for printing out certain
		  sendmail data structures.
	adm	  Administrativia.
	aux	  Files that represent programs that are not really
		  "part" of sendmail, or old versions of some files
		  in src for use by people on other system types.
	cf	  The configuration files for Berkeley, plus a few
		  prototype configurations for basic installation
		  types.
	doc	  The documentation.
	include	  The include files used by more than just the sendmail
		  program itself.
	lib	  Library routines used by sendmail, but not really
		  "part" of sendmail itself; these might be candidates
		  for libc.a.
	md	  Some m4 files used to isolate machine dependencies.
	src	  The source for the sendmail program itself.
	test	  Some files used for testing -- mostly these are
		  shell files intended as the targets for aliasing.

The following are the known major problems and their Problem Report
number:

012, 043	Names of files and programs cannot have upper case letters
		in them -- these get mapped to lower case due to the
		case mapping feature.
178		Because of the different syntaxes used in envelopes versus
		headers, we will occasionally allow syntactically incorrect
		headers go out.
226		Quote interpretation may be incorrect -- this is not well
		defined in the protocols.

Due to my present circumstances, I am unable to provide a formal
level of support for this system.  However, I will make whatever
attempt I can to answer a reasonable number of questions.  Since
the company I am working for is not working in this area, and has
indulged me tremendously in letting me work on this at all, I regret
that I am unable to accept phone calls.  I can be contacted as:

		OLD			NEW
    Arpanet:	eric@Berkeley		eric@Berkeley.ARPA
    UUCP:	ucbvax!eric		eric@ucbvax.UUCP

Eric Allman
Britton-Lee, Inc.

@(#)READ_ME	4.1		7/25/83
