This message was machine generated.  It is intended to alert you to a
possible problem with one of the nameservers for the domain listed
below.  If you have any questions about this message, please contact
dns-maintenance@umich.edu.

The nameserver listed in the subject (and again below) was detected as
a "lame delegation" by the UMICH.EDU nameservers.

	Domain: %DOMAIN%
	Server: %SERVER%

The following paragraphs describe what a lame delegation is and
suggests some things you might do to eliminate the lame delegation.  If
you are an experienced hostmaster, you probably do not to read the rest
of this message; if you don't know what a lame delegation is, you
probably want to keep reading.

A lame delegation is an instance when a nameserver has been listed as
authoritative for a domain, but does not seem to be performing
nameservice for that domain.  A lame delegation can usually be easily
remedied by either fixing some small error in a configuration file, or
by contacting the appropriate hostmaster and supplying him/her with
up-to-date information.

Two pieces of information are listed above.  The first one is the name
of the domain that was flagged, and the second one is the lame
delegation -- that is, it is a purported nameserver for the domain.

If the nameserver should be performing nameservice for the listed
domain, it may be useful to inspect it.  Is the zone for that domain
expiring?  If the nameserver is performing secondary service, does it
have the correct IP address of the master server(s)?  Again, if the
nameserver is performing secondary service, is its copy of the SOA
record serial number greater than the one held by the master server? Is
there a typographical error or omission in the boot file?

If the nameserver should not be listed as a nameserver for the domain,
contact the hostmaster for that domain and ask that the NS record
pointing to your nameserver be deleted.  If your machine is not a
nameserver for the domain, it should not be listed as such.

Thank you for your time and your patience.
