    A new release of the UCI version of the Rand Message Handling (MH)
    system is available for distribution.  This release of MH is called 

				  MH 6.4

    There are a lot of changes between MH.5 and MH 6; a lot of
    performance enhancements were made, there's also a lot of support
    for distributed mail (personal mail and bulletin bboards).  If you
    have a number of machines at your site running 4.2BSD and connected
    by a high-speed network, you WANT this software.  In addition, mh.6
    has got a number of generalizations and bug fixes.  There's also a
    lot more documentation and an Administrator's Guide!  

    Here are the details:  

	- MH is in the public-domain
	- MH runs on a number of versions of UNIX (4.[123]BSD, V7, SYS5, and
	  XENIX) [sorry, no support for SYS3.]
	- MH runs on top of a number of mail transport systems
	  (MMDF-{I,II}, SendMail, stand-alone (with UUCP support))

    Although MH is not "supported" per se, it does have a bug-reporting
    address, Bug-MH@UCI.EDU.  Bug reports (and fixes) are welcome, by
    the way.  There are also two ARPA Internet discussion groups:
    MH-Users@UCI.EDU and MH-Workers@UCI.EDU (somewhat analogous in
    charter to Info-UNIX and UNIX-Wizards).  

    There are two ways to get a distribution:

    1.  If you can FTP to the ARPA Internet, use anonymous FTP to
    louie.udel.edu [10.0.0.96] and retrieve the file portal/mh-6.tar.
    This is a tar image (approx 3.5MB).  The file portal/mh-6.tar.C is
    the tar image after being run through the compact program (approx
    2.3MB).  The file portal/mh-6.tar.Z is the tar image after being run
    through the compress program (approx 1.2MB).  

    2.  You can send $50 to the address below.  This covers the cost of
    a magtape, handling, and shipping.  In addition, you'll get a
    laser-printed hard-copy of the entire MH documentation set.  Be sure
    to include your USPS address with your check.  Checks should be made
    payable to 

		Regents of the University of California

    and must be drawn on U.S.  funds.  It's also a good idea (though not
    mandatory) to send a computer mail message to "Bug-MH@UCI.EDU" when
    you send your check via USPS to ensure minimal turn-around time.
    The distribution address is:  

	Support Group 
	Attn: MH distribution
	Department of Information and Computer Science
	University of California, Irvine
	Irvine, CA  92717

	714/856-7553

    Sadly, if you just want the hard-copies of the documentation, you
    still have to pay the $50.00.  The tar image has the documentation
    source (the manual is in roff format, but the rest are in TeX
    format).  

/mtr
