	This directory contains files collected from various places
throughout the system. They are intended as examples (taken from real
life don't ya know) of how the files are intended to look.
	I've tried to update this file as I diddle with things. Hopefully
any files which aren't listed in this file will enough documentation
within themselves to help you figure out where they belong. Most of
these files belong in the notesfile utility directory,
/usr/spool/notes/.utilities.


File		What good is it
--------	---------------------------
Read_me		this file

cronarch.sh	shell file run "su" to the notesfile owner. This is
		run several times weekly to archive or delete old notes.

cronnet.sh	shell file run "su" to the notesfile owner. This is
		run occasionally (we are using 4 times daily) to
		propogate new notes for USENET notesfiles. In our
		situation, these notesfiles only see new traffic during
		the evening. By running this less frequently, we
		save a lot of cycles on our machines.

cronlocal.sh	shell file run "su" to the notesfile owner. This
		one propogates local notesfiles across the network.
		We separated the local updates from the USENET updates
		so we could update local notesfiles hourly and
		USENET notesfiles only a few times per day, centered
		around our polling other sites.
		This script is set up to talk to all of our local
		sites and gathers the set of notesfiles to send to
		each site from files, allowing easy changes to the
		list of notesfiles sent around without modifying 
		the script itself.  The same script is used on
		all of our hosts -- we just make sure that the list
		of notes to send to "yourself" is empty.

crontab		A copy of the added lines in /usr/lib/crontab
		that we use for notes management.

net.how		/usr/spool/notes/.utilities/net.how  - The file
		used by "nfxmit" to get updates to other systems.
		This is also used by "newsoutput" to figure out how
		to get to Usenet.

newsgroups	Our mappings between notesfiles and newsgroups.
		Lives in /usr/spool/notes/.utilities/newsgroups
		[not terribly up to date -RBE 3/84]

shorten		Shell script to clean up the log files. Run at your 
		leisure. If you are hard up for disk space, run it often.

syncnews	C shell script provide by Brian Redman (harpo!ber) 
		which compares notesfiles and newsgroups to see
		if any newsgroup does not have a matching notesfile.
		This script does not use the "newsgroups" file to
		alias between them. It is effective.

sys		A copy of /usr/lib/news/sys (for A news: /usr/spool/news/.sys)
		This shows how to get the news forwarded into notesfiles.

Archive-into	An example of the mapping file between active and archive
		notesfiles.  I'm not using this feature too often, but
		this file gives you an idea of what is expected. The
		final resting place for this file is
		/usr/spool/notes/.utilities/net.aliases/Archive-into

access-template		This file contains modifications to the normal
		access list given to newly created notesfiles. It is
		handy to ensure that whoever manages the notesfile
		data base can access notesfiles from his own account
		in addition to the "notes" account.  It can also
		be used to restrict access to new notesfiles.
		For more information on the format of this file, see
		the man page for nfaccess(8).

avail.notes	A copy of our "avail.notes" file. This describes
		the available notesfiles.  This only contains the
		notesfiles that the administrator wishes to advertise.
		We list a number of our local notesfiles and then
		append the monthly USENET newsgroup listing.

short.names	This is a list of newsgroups which are longer than
		14 characters.  On non-4.2 BSD systems, a notesfile
		name is limited to 14 characters [4.2 gets to use 255].
		If you have a 4.2 BSD system with long names and a 
		neighbor with the short names, the following scenario
		can take place:

			you get news into "net.unix-wizards" and
			send it to your non-4.2 neighbor. He promptly
			truncates it to "net.unix-wizar". When the
			time comes for him to send back to you, it shows
			up on your machine in "net.unix-wizar".

		What we have done at UIUC is use symbolic links to make
		"net.unix-wizar" point at "net.unix-wizards". The
		short.names file allows us to send "net.*" and use
		the ! exclusion feature to remove references to the
		links such as "net.unix-wizar". The list is probably
		not quite in synch with the current USENET newsgroups.
